README.md, before:

# qbar_flutter

Flutter study via a QR/barcode scanner mobile app.

## Specs

### Basic

1. Scan QR codes
1. Scan barcodes
1. diplay the results
1. copy results to clipboard

### Additional

1. [researching] zoom camera

## The Journey

1. [done] install Flutter toolchain for Android
1. [done] create, build, run on Android phone, and play around with basic app
1. [done] implement Basic Specs via any means
1. [ongoing] add camera zooming functionality

## The Journal

### Installing The Flutter Toolchain

No prior experience to any form of mobile app development. It was easy enough to get started on [Expo](https://expo.io/), but I really wanted to try Flutter. It was wrong to expect the same ease in setting up the toolchain. :/ This was more trouble than it should be.

Got guidance from [How to install Flutter on macOS using homebrew and asdf](https://dev.to/0xdonut/how-to-install-flutter-on-macos-using-homebrew-and-asdf-3loa), but not everything worked as is.

Steps That Got Things Going:

1. [install dart](https://dart.dev/get-dart)
   1. `brew tap dart-lang/dart`
   1. `brew install dart`
1. [install Flutter](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install)
   1. `git clone https://github.com/flutter/flutter.git -b stable`
      Because I didn't want to install from the zip.
   1. `export PATH="$HOME/<flutter cloned>/flutter/bin:$PATH"`
1. check installation status
   1. `flutter doctor`
      This was quite helpful in isolating what else is needed.
1. install Java 8
   The latest version of Java (14 as of writing) doesn't work.
   1. `brew cask install homebrew/cask-versions/adoptopenjdk8`
1. [install Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install)
   1. `brew cask install android-studio`
      Because I prefer things installed via Homebrew.
   1. Android Studio will download and install a bunch of stuff
   1. it also installs haxm
   1. check if a patch is available
1. check `./tools/bin/sdkmanager` from Android Studio SDK folder
   1. if `flutter doctor` can't find `sdkmanager`, check Android SDK Tools (obsolete)
1. accept Android license
   1. `flutter doctor --android-licenses`

The experience will likely change over time, but here's my experience trying to install the toolchain MacOS Catalina 10.15.3 during April Fools' 2020. (Perhaps the real solution was I shouldn't have tried doing it on April Fools'? ┐(￣ヘ￣ )┌)

Commit message:

docs: Described toolchain installation experience.

README.md, after:

# qbar_flutter

Flutter study via a QR/barcode scanner mobile app.

## Specs

### Basic

1. Scan QR codes
1. Scan barcodes
1. diplay the results
1. copy results to clipboard

### Additional

1. [researching] zoom camera

## The Journey

1. [done] install Flutter toolchain for Android [[journey]](#installing-the-flutter-toolchain)
1. [done] create, build, run on Android phone, and play around with basic app
1. [done] implement Basic Specs via any means
1. [ongoing] add camera zooming functionality

## The Journal

### Installing The Flutter Toolchain

No prior experience to any form of mobile app development. It was easy enough to get started on [Expo](https://expo.io/), but I really wanted to try Flutter. It was wrong to expect the same ease in setting up the toolchain. :/ This was more trouble than it should be.

Got guidance from [How to install Flutter on macOS using homebrew and asdf](https://dev.to/0xdonut/how-to-install-flutter-on-macos-using-homebrew-and-asdf-3loa), but not everything worked as is.

Steps That Got Things Going:

1. [install dart](https://dart.dev/get-dart)
   1. `brew tap dart-lang/dart`
   1. `brew install dart`
1. [install Flutter](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install)
   1. `git clone https://github.com/flutter/flutter.git -b stable`  
      Because I didn't want to install from the zip.
   1. `export PATH="$HOME/<flutter cloned>/flutter/bin:$PATH"`
1. check installation status
   1. `flutter doctor`  
      This was quite helpful in isolating what else is needed.
1. install Java 8
   The latest version of Java (14 as of writing) doesn't work.
   1. `brew cask install homebrew/cask-versions/adoptopenjdk8`
1. [install Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install)
   1. `brew cask install android-studio`  
      Because I prefer things installed via Homebrew.
   1. Android Studio will download and install a bunch of stuff
   1. it also installs haxm
   1. check if a patch is available
1. check `./tools/bin/sdkmanager` from Android Studio SDK folder  
   _This took a LOOONG time to resolve!_
   1. if `flutter doctor` can't find `sdkmanager`, check "Android SDK Tools (obsolete)"
1. accept Android license
   1. `flutter doctor --android-licenses`

The experience will likely change over time, but that was my experience trying to install the toolchain on MacOS Catalina 10.15.3 during April Fools' 2020. Most items were just time consuming due to downloads and building.

The _real_ headaches came when `flutter doctor` couldn't find `sdkmanager`, which one would assume should be part of the Android Studio installation. Well, it was, but not quite. It wasn't part of the default configuration, so I had to download it. One would assume an item labelled "Android SDK Command-line Tools (latest)" or "Andorid SDK Build-Tools" would be the right ones, but they weren't. I tried customizing the various paths on the env vars, Android Studio, and Flutter config, to no avail. I also tried installing the standalone sdkmanager, which didn't work either.

Eventually stumbled on [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/60467477/android-sdk-tools-option-is-missing-from-sdk-manager-in-android-studio-3-6-1), which prompted me to install the "Android SDK Tools (obsolete)" version, which is hidden unless you uncheck "Hide Obsolete Packages". This, and using Java 8 (which was noted [here](https://dev.to/0xdonut/how-to-install-flutter-on-macos-using-homebrew-and-asdf-3loa)), got things working.

Sure, it might be considered "obsolete" from Android Studio's PoV, but the Flutter installation docs really should let people know that their toolchain would only work on specific versions of dependencies (like the sdmanager and Java). The way the docs were written, you'd think any version would work just fine.

Perhaps the real solution was I shouldn't have tried doing all this on April Fools'! ┐(￣ヘ￣ )┌
